1)We present benchmarking algorithms for a novel approach towards mapping of tissue and vasculature based on moving and measuring magnetic particles that are commanded by a global uniform input such as an MRI. 
2)The red particles which represent the micro particles need to visit frontier cells in blue in order to cover them or explore them. 
We study the three related challenges: mapping, coverage and foraging  in 1D and 2D grid environments with discrete inputs as seen here. 
3+4)For mapping a linear 1D space we show that the maximum and minimum number of moves can be bounded for single particle case and for n particle case we derive the equation for number of moves.  
We also examine mapping when scanning and moving have associated costs since an MRI can only do one at a time.
5)For 2D, we provide 3 algorithms of increasing complexity:
 First, Random moves. a probabilistically complete algorithm where each move is random. 
6) Second, Elect particle. Path planning is made based on proximity of an elect particle in green, to it’s closest frontier cell which is blinking in green and blue. And 
7)finally the closest frontier algorithm where the proximity of a particle to a frontier cell is exploited.
7) Here, planning is based on the closest  frontier cell and particle pair. This algorithm gives the shortest path of the three. In the simulation analysis, we compare

8) The performance of the algorithms for different number of particles, 
9) Effects of Different distributions such as Region fill, Flood fill and Uniform fill, and finally 10)different maps. Such as: Empty rectangle, 
11)H-tree map which has a large perimeter and 
12)also a complex map closely resembling vascular structures. 
Conditional:
All simulations were performed on map size of 5000 free cells and repeated 100 times to obtain mean and standard deviations.   
The results obtained in this work are of significant importance in understanding the constraints and challenges in particle manipulation and set a benchmark for future work.

